Mr. Dhiman will be involved in designing system architecture and documenting system flow and UML diagrams, etc. He will be developing technical solutions using technologies like JAVA 1.8, Spring MVC, Spring boot, Hibernate, JPA, Oracle and React JS. He has in depth knowledge of existing IT infrastructures as well as enhancements. He will also assist in research and recommendation of hardware, software components for new AIMS servers, design and suggest innovative changes in application systems, perform object-oriented analysis. Being a Spring/ReactJS expert, he will develop and test back end REST services and UI components for the front end web application using Spring and ReactJS. He will be involved in the design and development of application authentication and implement authorization mechanisms using spring security. In addition to developing React JS components his skills will also be utilized in Integrating services in UI application, Consuming backend API calls and getting data in JSON format. (30% of the time)

• Mr. Dhiman will be involved in maintaining various AIMS level settings for all the environments. He will coordinate with Release Teams to ensure smooth release of the deliverables and will coordinate the team for post release validation of the whole system. He will be responsible to revise the programs time to time to ensure they are working properly or not. He will have to perform the tasks such as developing or acquiring test data, developer’s unit testing using Mockito, Junit and debugging to produce required results and revising the programs. He will be responsible for integration testing and system levels testing(10% of the time)

Mr. Dhiman will work with Project Managers and Business Analysts in the process of requirements capture and analysis for designing, developing and implementation. He will be responsible for maintaining requirements in tools like JIRA (5 % of his time)

• Mr. Dhiman will be working with Product and Project Managers to understand the requirement and develop UI applications based on the requirement. He will assist other team members in understanding business and technical requirements, domain knowledge and solving technical issues. (10 % of his time)

• Mr. Dhiman will be actively involved writing and testing of DB script and manual configurations required for the release. He will responsible for Database modeling, troubleshoot Database transaction performance issues. (5 % of his time)

• Mr. Dhiman will engage in performance analysis an• Mr. Dhiman will be involved in providing component design, class diagram designs, troubleshooting, licensing issues etc. He will also be responsible for deciding system logic, designing data structure, designing object-oriented patterns, component development. Formulate plan outlining steps required to develop program, using structured analysis and design. Convert project specifications, using flowcharts and diagrams, into sequence of detailed instructions and logical steps. (10% of the time)

• Mr. Dhiman will be involved in reviewing code written by team and refactoring if required. Mr. Dhiman will be using static code analysis tool SonarCube to minimize violations of coding standards accepted by client.(5% of the time)

• Mr. Dhiman will coordinate with various interface partners for project integration and execution and also schedule various demos with business owners to show progress of the application and to get feedback from them to make sure business requirements and developed applications/modules are in sync (5% of the time
